Each system has it’s own idea of how magic works or happens to be, in this system magic in shortest of descriptions is “usage of an invisible force to work it into shape and power in order to help adventurers in their quests”

While that is the core idea I shall give some of what I think magic is.
Magic is are invisible particles which encompasses the world or even the galaxy, it might be granted by gods or just be there from an old lost power that spread through the galaxy.
Much like energy, Magic cannot be destroyed since by shaping it into a fireball and shooting it, you absorb some magic and then release it in another magical way, after the spell is spent the particles go back to be available for use.

Unlike other systems the idea of magic in this system is that much like a warrior can use a sword to kill a dragon with his sword, magic can be used repeatedly and without need for too much rest.

Why are there no spells in the core rulebook?

In order to stick with the idea that you are part of the creation of these worlds that rise from these rules imagination should be the tool for players to create new and magnificent spells, spells that aren’t like the common fire ball or lightning strike.

Won’t spellcasters be overpowered in this system?

The simple answer is no, the reason they won’t be overpowered is since no matter how you spend your points as you level, much like a non spellcaster might dedicate a lot of points into physical and do amazing amounts of damage every time he swings and hits his sword at the target. 
So too is the spellcaster, without the front liner to keep the spellcaster safe, the spellcaster might die easily due to having low armor or hit points.

There are many systems out there with better spellcasting rules than yours!

I never said there aren’t other systems that give you another way of doing it that might be simple as well, the idea of this system is to make it as simple as it can be and make it openly available for all to use.

See license for exact rules regarding commercial use