Spellcasting & Healing

Introduction:

Unlike in other D&D games, in this game all characters can learn to cast spells or heal others.

In order to heal others you need at least 1 in heal attribute same goes for spell casting, you need at least 1 in spellpower.
Healing ability can be performed from 15 feet away from the target.

Spell casting is not limited to offensive spells. (options for types of magic: enchanting, summoning, necromancy, conjuration)

Duration spells can last up to intelligence score.
(so a character with 2 intelligence could either cast invisibility on a character for 2 rounds or 2 spells that last 1
round)

for every HP given to a conjured thing it counts as another spell active (all spells last as long as the spellcaster is concious / alive)

Spell costs

for each spell active your knowledge and spellpower are reduced by 1 until that spell fades.you need at least 1
remaining unused spellpower to cast spells.

You need at least 1 spellpower left in order to cast more spells.

permanent conjurations / summons / necromancy take the spellpower until destroyed completely, For every creature / object summoned / conjured it takes a spell slot.
permanent enchantments on items require the item to be broken for spellpower to be freed. for every +1 to any attribute it takes another active spell slot.

Illusions can only be maintained as long as the caster maintains focus on it, meaning sleeping would destroy the illusion. 
For every illusion object / creature it takes another active spell slot.
An illusion would give the bonus to charisma equal to the knowledge minus active spells.
Illusion spells can be detected if an insight check is successfull against a attack-spell roll.
All illusions have no physical body to speak of and thus any touch or attacks on it, will pass through it and reveal
the nature of the spell.

Offensive spells can be shaped in the following ways: single target, cone shaped (30 feet wide at end and 30 feet
long), Spherical (up to 60 feet wide sphere)
Cone and spherical do AOE damage and not spell damage