Magic item creation

In a small room at the top of an old tower flashes of light are seen and the shrill voice of laughter erupts as Veras finally completed the creation of the magical globe of sightseeing, exhausted of the effort his drops onto his small dusty bed aside his work table.

Unlike common spells that might involve instantly summoning into existence a creature or an object or a force to be reckoned with, the spellcaster might want to create weaponry or items to help his group or himself.

The following is a short guide how this should be done.

Magic item creation should never be a common simple thing everyone does at every moment of their life. 
The creation of a magical item should a feat of strength that will take long to reproduce.

Before the spellcaster can imbue an item with magic he will need to have the item bought or retrieved for him to imbue it with magic.

Unlike a momentary imbuement of power onto an item the creation of magical items is different.

Magical items become more resillient to damage and become lighter weight than their non magical or temporally magically imbued counterparts.

In order to create an item you need to sacrifice the willpower invested into the item forever.

The cost of the imbuement of the magic should be for every point of effect another point for the imbuement is sacrificed.

Unlike a spell though, these items will be available for use round after round without fail. 
So a +3 fire damage magically imbued sword would require to sacrifice 6 points of willpower for it’s creation.

The creation of magic items will take 1 day per effect willpoint invested in the item.

Rituals

Some magic might be needed to do some extraordinary feats of magic that reaching those powers might take tens or hundreds of levels to achieve, but the player really want to do it, such as opening a portal to another place very far away.

The spell caster should be allowed to do that using a ritual in which he invests every round all his spellpoints until he reaches the sum of points that are needed to do this feat of magic.

These rituals should not be disturbed by any damage or the spellcaster might drop concentration upon the ritual and lose the points already invested and have to begin anew.
